---
code: PHP2650 
name: Statistical Learning and Big Data 
title: Statistical Learning and Big Data 
mathjax: true
layout: post
categories: media
---

>  One key aspect of statistical learning in the context of big data is the emphasis on predictive modeling. Rather than focusing solely on understanding the underlying mechanisms of a phenomenon, statistical learning approaches prioritize the development of ML models that can accurately predict outcomes or make informed decisions based on the available data.

**Instructor:** [Alice Paul](https://vivo.brown.edu/display/apaul6) <br>
**Textbook:** [1] Hastie, T., Tibshirani, R. and Friedman, J. (2009). [*The Elements of Statistical Learning: Data Mining, Inference, and Prediction (2nd Edition)*](https://hastie.su.domains/Papers/ESLII.pdf). Springer New York, NY. ISBN 978-0-387-84858-7. [2] James, G., Witten, D., Hastie, T. and Tibshirani, R. (2013). [*An Introduction to Statistical Learning: with Applications in R*](https://hastie.su.domains/ISLR2/ISLRv2_website.pdf). Springer New York, NY. ISBN 978-1-4614-7138-7. 

**Description:** This course introduces modern statistical learning tools with a focus on those developed for big data. It covered three interconnected components: (i) statistical machine learning methods, (ii) the underlying algorithms, and (iii) computational tools. The course focused on the principal techniques to analyze data from start to finish: i.e., managing large data, exploring patterns, framing statistical problems, building efficient computational algorithms, and writing reports. Topics covered ranged from data management, feature engineering, clustering, convex optimization algorithms, tree/ensemble methods, and predictive modeling.

<!--
After you complete this course, you should be able to:
• Manage and explore big data sources.
• Apply and evaluate results from statistical learning tools including clustering, decision trees, and neural networks.
• Understand the underlying assumptions and mathematical foundations of these methods.
• Compare the computational complexity of different statistical learning approaches.
• Write a data analysis reports utilizing the above concepts and synthesizing the results.
-->

Spring '22
